welcome to slash forward and to another
episode dealing with the brutal and
unrelenting apathy inherent in our
natural existence in this case
exhibited through a movie called relic
for more adventures in scab
peeling subscribe to the channel and
enjoy let's get to it
we open on a bathtub overflowing
spilling its contents down the stairs
and creeping toward the naked
feet of an elderly lady who's become
distracted by the hypnotic blinking
lights of the christmas tree then we
transition to kaye
and her daughter sam traveling out to
grammy's home as we hear a voiceover
phone call from a concerned neighbor who
hasn't seen edna for several days
they arrive and venture in via the
doggie door and are disturbed when they
get no response and find a rotten fruit
in the kitchen
given the likelihood of stumbling across
a bloated corpse
kay has sam waiting the hallway as she
investigates the bedroom
but she whips back the covers and finds
nothing sam hangs back at the house
while kaye goes to make a report with
the local police
and we learned the flooding incident
from the opening was from one year prior
then as they worked to build out a
timeline for what may have happened to
edna kaye is forced to admit that she
hasn't checked in on her for several
weeks
meanwhile sam finds a closet with a lock
on it and pushes her way in to grab some
fresh linens
while in there she's momentarily
disturbed by some moving plastic but
this turns out to be nothing
just our minds playing games again so
they spend their time cleaning and
keeping busy while in a state of utter
confusion
and helplessness the next day the search
party commences combing the nearby woods
looking for edna this is capped off by
another evening of cleaning and coping
while relaxing with a cigarette sam runs
across their neighbor jaime patrolling
the area and helping out however he can
we learn that he isn't allowed to be in
edna's house anymore so he hasn't seen
her for some time
and even though she's not there and
despite the offer of a couple of lucy's
he's still reluctant to enter the house
as sam and k mill about that evening sam
makes note of the fact that it looks
like there are new locks on every door
of the house
here kay admits that in her last contact
with her edna thought that someone had
been entering the house
leaving doors open turning lights on
shifting her chair
but kaye had chalked this all up to her
dementia and chose to do nothing about
it a bit later sam puts on graeme's
cardigan and finds a cryptic note in one
of the pockets
advising herself not to follow it then
there's a thump at the wall which k
explores elsewhere resulting in a
reciprocal thump
must be the pipes when we find k next
she's in dreamland
approaching a dark cabin and finding it
contains the desiccated remains of a
helpless individual the disturbing
thought sends her to sam's room where
she snuggles up foot defeats
after they settle in the lights pulse
and we see they're being visited in
their bed by an unknown party
then kay wakes up to the sound of the
kettle on the burner and she wanders in
to find her mom
now returned but unable to provide any
details as to where she's been or what
she's been up to
soon we find her getting checked out by
a nurse and the police are notified of
the new development she appears to be in
relatively good health with a sharp
memory but also has a concerning bruise
on her chest
resulting in a recommendation that she
be watched for the next few days
and then when k is making arrangements
to be off work for a bit
she finds a bloodstained nightgown she
confronts her mom about this new
evidence using it as a segue into asking
where she was again but old edna
continues to play coy
i mean a girl's gotta have her secrets
after all that evening we see that her
itchy bruise has developed into a fairly
severe hematoma now that she's feeling
good about being back in familiar
surroundings when sam brings her some
tea
she offers to gift her an old wedding
ring since she can't get it over her
fingers anymore
then sam and kay spent the evening
getting some work done and going through
some old memories
including a book that may have been
drawn by grandpa and it connects us back
to the old cabin from her dream
we learned it had been on the property
back when it was first inherited and
great grandpappy had lived in the cabin
up until the time he died which is kind
of how that works
he unfortunately wasn't found for quite
a while based on this family history
sam intends to tour a retirement home
the next day since mom needs not just a
place to stay but constant supervision
that night k
finds herself unable to sleep and hears
movement coming from downstairs
she creeps down quietly and finds mom in
the foyer whispering to
someone she's helped back to bed where
she treats this will you be all right
now
as a loaded question but she's too
distracted to pursue this very far as
she claims there's something under the
bed
kay goes in for a closer look and
notices a strangely shaped shadow with a
hint of movement but the atmosphere of
discovery is broken when she takes a
heart back to the head
the next day we find her taking a tour
of the memory assist facility and see
that this is a step she's still
conflicted about despite the
circumstances
sam returns home to find grammy dancing
and she's drawn into a whimsical dance
lesson
after a bit the music turns morose and
sam broaches the topic of what happened
with her neighbor to try to get a little
more context
but she gets brick walled so instead she
tries to bring up the idea of coming to
live in the house to help out which
would certainly be better than getting
carted off to a home
another strike is grandma then gets
upset by the news that they're
considering a home and she gives her
finger the absolute
business over getting back the ring she
assumes sam stole from her
sam then takes a little bath to help
ease the pain of coming to terms with
the fact that edna may be beyond her
help and someone comes scratching at her
door a bit before moving on but then
later when they're preparing dinner
she seems to be in a better mood and
states her preference to have sam move
in with her if it'll keep her out of the
home
later on sam goes to check the
floodlights which seem to turn on at
random times
and she notices some mold forming around
the window they repurposed from the old
cabin she then goes to find grams
whistling in the mirror and she reveals
that this is where she assumed whoever
was entering the house had been coming
from
she has a general distaste for the cold
unwelcoming house but it's all she has
left to remember her late husband
in her state of vulnerability she seems
to be softening even further to the idea
of having company however we see that
given the sudden mood shifts and
alarming outbursts sam is having her own
doubts about her ability to administer
care
that night there's another dream about
the old cabin this time it's edna who
occupies it and is transformed into a
moldy stain then she wakes up and
follows a whispery sound and despite
seeing a shadow
finds the bathroom empty reaffirming
sam's fears she finds myanmar the next
day mumbling to herself about suspicions
she has
regarding the girl's dark intentions for
her when she sees that edna's bleeding
she tries to help her but this only
results in a fit during which grandma
brandishes a knife
so sam heads over to jamie's house to
talk to his father and see if she can
get some additional contacts around why
he wasn't allowed to come over
he confides that jaime had been over and
playing hide and seek when he hid out in
the closet upstairs
edna presumably by mistake locked the
door and
also presumably forgot they were playing
a game and left him in there
when alex arrived to check on him you
could hear jaime screaming from across
the house
and he wasn't totally sure how you could
forget that you were actively hearing
someone scream
back at the house kay sees her mom
wandering out into the wilderness
she finds her enjoying a little
nostalgic treat and after she pulls the
pictures out of her mouth edna continues
on her way and finds a primo spot where
she can bury the photo book a project
she claims is intended to maintain the
safety of the book
then she laments having the cabin window
in her house and talks about how it
sometimes tries to get at her making her
wish she could bury herself for safety
purposes
kay in a moment of mutual vulnerability
asks her mom to come
back with her to melbourne to live with
her and the ladies hug it out
meanwhile sam is returned and is
checking out the cursed closet
since it creeped her out before and she
wants to get a sense of how bad the
incident with jaime may have been in her
examination she shines her flashlight
and finds a void behind
some of the shelves that leads to
another hallway back there she finds a
whole new space that seems to be used
mostly for storage
and is also riddled with mold when she
finds splitting pathways in multiple
doors that are accompanied by strange
noises
she opts to get the hell out but the way
back is not as straightforward as she
had remembered she gets all turned
around and then discovers that phones
don't work back here
so she plan b's it and starts panicking
at dinner time as they wonder where
sam's off to
mom defiantly stares kay in the eye as
she soils herself
she's put in the bathtub which appears
to be overdues and she has mold forming
on her skin
and then when kaye goes to clean up she
notices some sort of inky substance in
her leavings
sam continues to wander in the void
finding evidence that edna's been there
as she continues her attempts to escape
meanwhile kate tries to get back into
the bathroom to check on her mom who is
unresponsive when she peers over the top
of the door she finds her mutilating
herself
and then luckily she just casually walks
out kate turns off the water but not
before the breakers are tripped so she
is forced to enter her mother's room via
candlelight while it's actively being
thrashed
when the candle goes out we hear signs
of a struggle and then kay finds herself
in the closet by the open doorway
deeper in that space we find sam
venturing into ever smaller corridors
and see that the creaking and moaning
sounds are the house reconfiguring
itself
recognizing that normal rules of social
etiquette don't apply here sam starts
breaking through walls to find a safe
spot
meanwhile kate's caught up with her mom
who's crouched down in a corner and upon
closer inspection
appears to be severely damaging her
epidermis at the next junction sam finds
a hefty pipe and manages to break
through what appears to be the back side
of the fireplace in the main house
but she pauses momentarily due to sounds
of a struggle nearby
she goes to investigate and is warned
away by kay who says that mom is not mom
anymore so they head back to the hole
and get to working on it as edna slowly
pursues them resulting in a brief game
of tug-of-war into the living room and
then a bit of a lady wrestle that ends
with a pipe to the face
kay then gets an emotional hook in her
after glancing back for one last
pitiful look remembering the fate of her
ancestor she decides that she can't
leave her mom to be lost here only kept
company by the creeping mold
she locks sam out and then carries her
mom upstairs and sets her down on the
bed
here she pauses for a moment to assess
her wounds and begins to peel off some
of the now
unnecessary skin flaps that are hanging
off of her she seems to be part of the
three percent of the population that
finds this activity addictive because
she just keeps on going until she's
stripped away the entire facade this act
of kindness seems to have a calming
effect as she sits there patiently and
quietly wheezes away
sam then returns having gained access to
the house and they lay the matriarch to
rest arranging themselves into a triple
spoon situation
from which sam takes note of the rot now
present in her mother
i have a website set up where you can
support the channel through donations or
merch i'd like to take a moment to give
a huge thanks to my donors memorialized
in the hall of head shots
[Music]
oh yeah brace yourself if i forgot to
say that before relic was a very well
put together slow burner
it does a great job of creating an
allegory for hereditary end-of-life
memory loss in a way that i think would
be familiar to anyone who's had to go
through it so it's sort of a double
whammy of realistic horror if you
enjoyed the video i'd love for you to
become part of the channel by
subscribing thanks for watching